.TH dcmsplit 1 "January, 2011 (v1.8.5)" "VoxBo" "The VoxBo Manual"
.SH NAME
dcmsplit - remove identifying fields from DICOM files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dcmsplit
<file> ... [<flags>...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dcmsplit
is part of the VoxBo suite of tools for brain image analysis.
.P
.B dcmsplit
removes identifying elements from a DICOM file.  It is not guaranteed
to remove all identifying elements, nor does it address identifying
information in the image data (e.g., facial features).  But it might be
useful as part of the de-identification process.
.P
.B dcmsplit
can optionally put the removed elements into a separate file, and can
also remove custom-specified groups and elements.  It can also run
recursively on directories.
.P
To see the list of groups/elements removed automatically, to get more
help, and to get a complete list of available flags, run the program
with no arguments.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Pre-built VoxBo binaries are available for Linux, OSX, and Cygwin, and
via the NeuroDebian project (neuro.debian.net) for Debian derivatives.
.SH CAVEATS
VoxBo is provided with no warranty whatsoever.
.SH AUTHOR
For an historical roster of the VoxBo development team, visit
www.voxbo.org.
.SH SEE ALSO
For detailed help on any VoxBo command-line program, run it with no
arguments.  For graphical programs, use the -h flag.  For more help
with VoxBo, for information about the mailing list, or to report bugs,
visit the web site at www.voxbo.org.
.P
For information about file format support in VoxBo, see
.BR voxbo-fileformats (7).
For general information about VoxBo, see
.BR voxbo (7).
See also
.BR vbrename (1),
.BR dicominfo (1).
