.TH vbbatch 1 "January, 2011 (v1.8.5)" "VoxBo" "The VoxBo Manual"
.SH NAME
vbbatch - run a command line multiple times with variable substitution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vbbatch
<flag> ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vbbatch
is part of the VoxBo suite of tools for brain image analysis.
.P
.B vbbatch
allows you to run a command multiple times with some variable
substitutions (typically replacing the token FILE with each of a set
of filenames).  The commands are then run in parallel.  If a VoxBo
cluster is detected, the jobs will be submitted to the cluster.
.SH OPTIONS
.SH EXAMPLES
To run myscript.sh on all your subjects' Anatomy directories:
.IP ""
vbbatch -c "myscript.sh FILE" study*/sub*/Anatomy -r
.P
To run myperms.sh 1000 times at low priority, with different output
files:
.IP ""
vbbatch -c "myperms.sh results_IND.nii.gz" -d 1000 -r -p xnice
.SH AVAILABILITY
Pre-built VoxBo binaries are available for Linux, OSX, and Cygwin, and
via the NeuroDebian project (neuro.debian.net) for Debian derivatives.
.SH CAVEATS
VoxBo is provided with no warranty whatsoever.
.SH AUTHOR
For an historical roster of the VoxBo development team, visit
www.voxbo.org.
.SH SEE ALSO
For detailed help on any VoxBo command-line program, run it with no
arguments.  For graphical programs, use the -h flag.  For more help
with VoxBo, for information about the mailing list, or to report bugs,
visit the web site at www.voxbo.org.
.P
For information about file format support in VoxBo, see
.BR voxbo-fileformats (7).
For general information about VoxBo, see
.BR voxbo (7).
