.TH vbim 1 "January, 2011 (v1.8.5)" "VoxBo" "The VoxBo Manual"
.SH NAME
vbim - manipulate 3D and 4D volumes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vbim
<flag> ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vbim
is part of the VoxBo suite of tools for brain image analysis.
.P
.B vbim
is a multi-purpose program that applies various simple manipulations
to 3D and 4D images.
.SH OPTIONS
.B vbim
performs a set of operations, specified by option flags, in sequence.
To get a complete list of available flags, run the program with no
arguments.
.SH EXAMPLES
To get very basic info about a file:
.IP ""
vbim foo.nii -info
.P
To get more detailed information about the data within a mask:
.IP ""
vbim foo.nii -regioninfo mask.nii
.P
To apply a mask to a 3D image and write out the result:
.IP ""
vbim image.nii -mask mask.nii -write maskedimage.nii
.P
To mask a 4D image:
.IP ""
vbim image.nii -mask mask.nii -write4D maskedimage.nii
.P
To average a bunch of 3D volumes:
.IP ""
vbim *.nii.gz -average -write mean.nii.gz
.P
To create a lesion count map from a set of lesion masks:
.IP ""
vbim *.nii -count -write count.nii.gz
.P
To create a 4D volume (20x20x20 voxels, 32-bit int, 10 time points) of
random data with a mean of 100 and sd of 10:
.IP ""
vbim -newvol 20 20 20 10 int32 -addnoise 100 10 -write3d myvol.nii
.SH NOTES
.SH AVAILABILITY
Pre-built VoxBo binaries are available for Linux, OSX, and Cygwin, and
via the NeuroDebian project (neuro.debian.net) for Debian derivatives.
.SH CAVEATS
VoxBo is provided with no warranty whatsoever.
.SH AUTHOR
For an historical roster of the VoxBo development team, visit
www.voxbo.org.
.SH SEE ALSO
For detailed help on any VoxBo command-line program, run it with no
arguments.  For graphical programs, use the -h flag.  For more help
with VoxBo, for information about the mailing list, or to report bugs,
visit the web site at www.voxbo.org.
.P
For information about file format support in VoxBo, see
.BR voxbo-fileformats (7).
For general information about VoxBo, see
.BR voxbo (7).
