.TH vbrename 1 "January, 2011 (v1.8.5)" "VoxBo" "The VoxBo Manual"
.SH NAME
vbrename - rename/sort DICOM files heuristically
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vbrename
<dir>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vbrename
is part of the VoxBo suite of tools for brain image analysis.
.P
.B vbrename
takes a directory containing DICOM files and sorts the files into
separate directories for each series.  The directories are renamed
using the series and protocol, while the files are renamed using the
instance, date, and time.
.P
By default, vbrename tries to remove identifying data from each file
by wiping out various fields, including all of groups 0010, 0012,
0032, and 0038, and any element with a VR of PN (person name).  This
is not guaranteed to be helpful or complete.  For more de-identifying
options, see
.BR dcmsplit (1).
You can disable this behavior using the -n flag, in which case the
files are renamed and moved around, but not otherwise modified.
.P
To get a complete list of available flags, run the program with no
arguments.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Pre-built VoxBo binaries are available for Linux, OSX, and Cygwin, and
via the NeuroDebian project (neuro.debian.net) for Debian derivatives.
.SH CAVEATS
VoxBo is provided with no warranty whatsoever.
.SH AUTHOR
For an historical roster of the VoxBo development team, visit
www.voxbo.org.
.SH SEE ALSO
For detailed help on any VoxBo command-line program, run it with no
arguments.  For graphical programs, use the -h flag.  For more help
with VoxBo, for information about the mailing list, or to report bugs,
visit the web site at www.voxbo.org.
.P
For information about file format support in VoxBo, see
.BR voxbo-fileformats (7).
For general information about VoxBo, see
.BR voxbo (7).
See also
.BR dcmsplit (1).
