.TH vbvolregress 1 "January, 2011 (v1.8.5)" "VoxBo" "The VoxBo Manual"
.SH NAME
vbvolregress - carry out linear regression in 1D and 4D data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vbvolregress
<flag> ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vbvolregress
is part of the VoxBo suite of tools for brain image analysis.
.P
.B vbvolregress
carries out linear regression, using an arbitrary combination of 1D
and 4D variables.  If only 1D variables are included, it's just a
single regression.  If a 34D dependent variable or at least one 4D
independent variable is included, then a separate regression is
carried out at each spatial location.
.B vbvolregress
optionally permutes the data, and can produce as output a statistical
map, parameter estimate maps, and residuals.  It will also carry out
FDR thresholding if requested.
.P
To get a complete list of available flags, run the program with no
arguments.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Pre-built VoxBo binaries are available for Linux, OSX, and Cygwin, and
via the NeuroDebian project (neuro.debian.net) for Debian derivatives.
.SH CAVEATS
VoxBo is provided with no warranty whatsoever.
.SH AUTHOR
For an historical roster of the VoxBo development team, visit
www.voxbo.org.
.SH SEE ALSO
For detailed help on any VoxBo command-line program, run it with no
arguments.  For graphical programs, use the -h flag.  For more help
with VoxBo, for information about the mailing list, or to report bugs,
visit the web site at www.voxbo.org.
.P
For information about file format support in VoxBo, see
.BR voxbo-fileformats (7).
For general information about VoxBo, see
.BR voxbo (7).
