.TH vecview 1 "January, 2011 (v1.8.5)" "VoxBo" "The VoxBo Manual"
.SH NAME
vecview - graphical viewer for 1D (vector) or 2D (matrix) data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vecview
[<flag> ...] <file> ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vecview
is part of the VoxBo suite of tools for brain image analysis.
.P
.B vecview
allows you to view and explore one or more 1D vectors, or a single 2D
matrix.  Command line options allow you to concatenate vectors.
Options in the graphical interface allow you to switch among multiple
vectors or to view them all simultaneously.  You can also view the
power spectrum of the vector.
.P
The following keys are recognized by the grapher.  The up arrow and
down arrow let you zoom in or out.  The tab key lets you switch
between vectors when more than one is displayed.  The shift key lets
you see interpolated values (otherwise, clicking on the graph snaps to
the nearest point).  F1 through F4 select view modes.
.P
To get a list of command line flags, run the program with no
arguments.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Pre-built VoxBo binaries are available for Linux, OSX, and Cygwin, and
via the NeuroDebian project (neuro.debian.net) for Debian derivatives.
.SH CAVEATS
VoxBo is provided with no warranty whatsoever.
.SH AUTHOR
For an historical roster of the VoxBo development team, visit
www.voxbo.org.
.SH SEE ALSO
For detailed help on any VoxBo command-line program, run it with no
arguments.  For graphical programs, use the -h flag.  For more help
with VoxBo, for information about the mailing list, or to report bugs,
visit the web site at www.voxbo.org.
.P
For information about file format support in VoxBo, see
.BR voxbo-fileformats (7).
For general information about VoxBo, see
.BR voxbo (7).
