.TH voxbo 7 "January, 2011 (v1.8.5)" "VoxBo" "The VoxBo Manual"
.SH NAME
voxbo - general information about the VoxBo toolbox
.SH DESCRIPTION
VoxBo is a suite of tools for brain image analysis, especially fMRI
analysis and lesion-behavior mapping.  VoxBo includes over 100 tools,
including many for general-purpose image munging (e.g., vbim(1)), many
that implement specific statistical procedures (e.g., vbtmap(1)), and
some that would likely be just as useful for non-imaging applications
(vbbatch(1)).
.P
VoxBo has supported cluster parallel processing since 1998.  Although
cluster installation is a little tricky, it's worth the effort if
you'd like to speed up your analyses by an order of magnitude or two.
As of 2010, VoxBo also supports desktop parallel processing on
multi-core systems.  We do not yet support GPU parallel processing.
.P
All VoxBo tools support a common set of file formats.  See
voxbo-fileformats(7) for more information.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Pre-built VoxBo binaries are available for Linux, OSX, and Cygwin, and
via the NeuroDebian project (neuro.debian.net) for Debian derivatives.
.SH CAVEATS
VoxBo is provided with no warranty whatsoever.
.SH AUTHOR
For an historical roster of the VoxBo development team, visit
www.voxbo.org.
.SH SEE ALSO
For detailed help on any VoxBo command-line program, run it with no
arguments.  For graphical programs, use the -h flag.  For more help
with VoxBo, for information about the mailing list, or to report bugs,
visit the web site at www.voxbo.org.
.P
For information about VoxBo file formats, see
.BR voxbo-fileformats (7).
