
The bulk of VoxBo is made up of modular components designed to be
independently useful, in keeping with the UNIX(tm) philosophy of
system design.  We're happy to include code as part of the VoxBo
distribution that we feel will be useful to VoxBo users, as long as it
meets certain standards.

(1) may be distributed with source code under the GPL
(2) conforms generally to the style of other voxbo programs
(3) complicates the build process and cross-platform issues only to an
    acceptable degree
(4) makes use of the voxbo plug-in library to do image i/o

We may also specifically support particular executables by providing
configuration and other files that will make it easier to use them
with the rest of VoxBo (e.g., jobtype files, scripts, documentation
etc.).

The last item requires some explanation.  All VoxBo executables should
perform certain types of I/O via the I/O plug-in library.  This
applies mainly to 3D and 4D image data, although the library also
supports 1D vectors and will someday support matrices as well.  The
purpose of this is to ensure that everything included in the VoxBo
distribution will support our file formats and interoperate well.
Obviously foreign executables that don't do this may be perfectly
compatible with VoxBo in some sense.  They just aren't things we
distribute.

All VoxBo command-line programs should spew out some kind of help if
invoked without arguments.  Here's an example:
[]
For programs for which no arguments makes sense (e.g., gui-based
programs), the -h flag should do the same thing.

For many of the command line programs, it would be useful both to be
able to process multiple files at once and to be able to set a
file-specific output file name.  For this reason, we'll adopt the
following convention.  Where it's practical, allow multiple input
files to be specified, and use a default output file name that's
related to the input filename in some way.  But if a -o <fname> flag
is specified, use the specified output filename.  If there are
multiple files specified and the -o file as well, report an error.


<!--
VOXBO LIBRARIES -- GUIDELINES

-->


<!--
VOXBO LIBRARY API DOCUMENTATION
JOB SEQUENCE CREATION
-->

<!--
VOXBO LIBRARY API DOCUMENTATION
IMAGE TYPES AND I/O
-->

<!--
VOXBO LIBRARY API DOCUMENTATION
UTILITIES
-->
